# What is VitePress Blog?

VitePress Blog is a blog theme for [VitePress](https://www.vitepress.dev). It adds to the incredible features in VitePress allowing you to easily add a simple blog to the standard VitePress site. Your content can be written in [Markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown), with some useful frontmatter at the beginning of it

<div class="tip custom-block" style="padding-top: 8px">

Just want to try it out? Skip to the [Quickstart](./getting-started).

</div>

## Developer Experience

VitePress Blog uses VitePress to provide a great Developer Experience (DX) when working with Markdown content.

- **[Vite-Powered:](https://vitejs.dev/)** instant server start, with edits always instantly reflected (<100ms) without page reload.

- **[Built-in Markdown Extensions:](./markdown)** Frontmatter, tables, syntax highlighting... you name it. Specifically, VitePress provides many advanced features for working with code blocks, making it ideal for highly technical documentation.

- **[Vue-Enhanced Markdown:](./using-vue)** each Markdown page is also a Vue [Single-File Component](https://vuejs.org/guide/scaling-up/sfc.html), thanks to Vue template's 100% syntax compatibility with HTML. You can embed interactivity in your static content using Vue templating features or imported Vue components.

## Performance

Unlike many traditional SSGs, a website generated by VitePress Blog is in fact a [Single Page Application](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-page_application) (SPA).

- **Fast Initial Load**

  The initial visit to any page will be served the static, pre-rendered HTML for blazing fast loading speed and optimal SEO. The page then loads a JavaScript bundle that turns the page into a Vue SPA ("hydration"). The hydration process is extremely fast: on [PageSpeed Insights](https://pagespeed.web.dev/report?url=https%3A%2F%2Fvitepress.dev%2F), typical VitePress sites achieve near-perfect performance scores even on low-end mobile devices with a slow network.

- **Fast Post-load Navigation**

  More importantly, the SPA model leads to better user experience **after** the initial load. Subsequent navigation within the site will no longer cause a full page reload. Instead, the incoming page's content will be fetched and dynamically updated. VitePress also automatically pre-fetches page chunks for links that are within viewport. In most cases, post-load navigation will feel instant.

- **Interactivity Without Penalty**

  To be able to hydrate the dynamic Vue parts embedded inside static Markdown, each Markdown page is processed as a Vue component and compiled into JavaScript. This may sound inefficient, but the Vue compiler is smart enough to separate the static and dynamic parts, minimizing both the hydration cost and payload size. For the initial page load, the static parts are automatically eliminated from the JavaScript payload and skipped during hydration.
